Dot Net Framework : sw component that runs on the windows os. A set of tools and libraries that enable the developers to build softwares easier and faster

Dot net Core : Open source sw that is cross platform. CLI

SDLC models

Water fall model : 7 phases

Agile methodology : RAD

JVM : Java Virtual Machine
PVM : Python Virtual Machine

4 Major Components of .Net Framework
1. CLR : Common Lang. Runtime Source=Compilation=IL-JIT=natuve code

Write Once Run Anywhere (WORA)
2. CLS : Common Lang. Specification : Language Independence
3. (Base class Library- BCL - classes and objects that are required for basic input/output operarations)
 Framework Class Library -FCL 
   - Web applications
   - Windows applications
   - Drawing
   - XML
   - Data
   - Mobile applications
4. .Net Tools
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

C# : Is a modern, general-purpose, object oriented programmimng lang developed by Microsoft
     Was developed by Anders Hejlsberg and his team during the development of .net Framework
     Is designed for Common Lang Interface, which consists of executable code and runtime environment that allows use of various high level languages on different platforms and architectures.


Namespace : It is a logical way to organise the programs
            Is a collection of classes,Interfaces,Events,Delegates,Structures,Enums and other namespaces
            Is to avoid name clashes

Assembly : Every .net application on compilation gives assembly
           Assemblies are fundamental unit of deployment, that consists of PE Header, CLR Header, Manifest and IL
           Assemblies can be either of type .exe, .dll
           Assemblies can be private or shared
           

Datatypes: type of data
  Characters, numbers, strings, real numbers, booleans 


ILDASM - Dis assembler
ILASM - Assembler

1. Primitive/System defined/Fundamental 
2. User Defined 

All Data types are either 
Value Types - All primitive datatypes (the variables store the data directly)
Reference types - Arrays/Classes/Interface/Delegates/Events


Instance Method - One per instance of the class. Needs object for invocation
Static Method : One per class, Does not need object for invoking


Type Casting: Converting one data value type to another
     Implicit: Lower type to higher type - no loss of data
     Explicit: higher to lower (loss of data)

Boxing and Unboxing: Converting value types to reference types and vice versa

string and object are predefined reference types

struct and enum are predefined value types




